{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf610
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww6620\viewh14280\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Java OOP - Encapsulation\
\
Methods and attributes can have access identifiers.  They are \'93public\'94 and \'93private.  It is good practice to have methods to change attribute values, not users.  Also, these access identifiers protect code that should not be modified by unwanted users.  Also, (int odometer = 0;) is the same as (public int odometer = 0;).  And private attributes and methods can only be used within a class.  \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Main.java\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97 // 
\b entry point
\b0 \
public class Main \{\
\
  public static void main(String[] args) \{\
\
    Wrangler myWranglerCar = new Wrangler();\
    myWranglerCar.drive( 100);\
    
\b System.out.println(myWranglerCar.odometer); //// can't run because int odometer is private. 
\b0 \
    
\b myWranglerCar.odometer = 200; // can\'92t be changed because int odometer is private
\b0 \
    myWranglerCar.takeOffDoors();\

\b     
\b0 System.out.println(myWranglerCar.returnCarModel());\
\
\
    Car myCar = new Car();\
    myCar.drive(50);\
    
\b System.out.println(myCar.odometer); // can't run because int odometer is private.
\b0 \
   
\b  myCar.drive = 200; // can\'92t be changed because it odometer is private. 
\b0  \

\b     
\b0 System.out.println(myCar.returnCarModel());\
\
  \}\
\}\
\
\
Car.java\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97 // 
\b parent class
\b0 \
public class Car \{\
\

\b Private int odometer = 0; 
\b0  \
public void drive( int miles) \{\
    System.out.println("car drove " + miles + " miles");\
    odometer = odometer + miles;\
  \}\
\
  public String returnCarModel() \{\
    return "car model is unknown";\
\
  \}\
\}\
\
\
Wrangler.java\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97 // 
\b child class
\b0 \
public class Wrangler extends Car \{\
\
  boolean carDoors = true; \
\
public void takeOffDoors() \{\
  carDoors = false;\
  System.out.println("Doors are taken off");\
\
\}\
\
public void putBackDoors() \{\
  carDoors = true;\
  System.out.println("Doors are back");\
\
\}\
\
public String returnCarModel() \{\
  return "car model is Wrangler";\
\
\}\
\
\}\
}